# Binary-Cuckoo-Search-For-Plant-Leaf-Prediction
Binary Cuckoo Search for Plant Leaf Prediction; BCS, Wrapper FS, mRMR Filter-based FS; Bagging Ensemble Learning; K-Fold Cross-Validation; Flavia Dataset; Swedish Dataset

# Abstract
Computer vision plays a crucial role in current days tasks due to its wide range of merits and applications in many fields like disease diagnosis, medical decisions, military, security, scientific and business apps. Identifying plants species upon their leaves images is a very challenging and complex task. In this study, we introduced a model for classifying a variety set of plants leaves which included: Factorization Machine (FM), Dimensionality Reduction (DR),  and Ensemble Learning (EL). FM is used as a classification algorithm. DR included two stages that are Feature Extraction (FE) and Feature Selection (FS), where FE is used to extract the features from images in tabular form, and FS is used to reduce the size of the data by getting rid of noisy (redundant, irrelevant) features. Where two methods were utilized for FS, filter-based and wrapper-based approaches. The used filter is minimal-redundancy-maximal-relevance (mRMR), and the used wrapper is Improved Binary Cuckoo Search (IBCS) algorithm based on levy flight and abandon nest functions. And EL is used to declare different versions of FM by passing different subsets of features which are deduced from the original one to improves its performance. Swedish and Flavia leaf datasets are used for training and testing phases as we split the dataset into two parts for training and testing. The proposed model a achieved a high performance in term of accuracy that produced 95.67 % on Swedish and 99.6 % on Flavia. According to the results and in comparing with other methods, we proved that this model ensures a better plant leaf classification approach. And the proposed wrapper feature selection approach showed very good results without setting up the number of features to be selected by the user.
